---
layout: page
title:  "Chapter 10 | Science and me"
date:   2019-01-07 20:00:42 +0200
image: /images/science.jpg
card: summary_large_image
keywords: girl studying science, science, women and science, studying physics, why I quit physics, lack of women in science, sexism in science
---
My father loves the *Discovery* channel. When I was young, we would watch *Bill Nye the Science Guy*. I was enthralled. We replicated what taught us on his show. I was always a curious child and pestered my Dad with many, many, *many* scientific questions. Together, we would smear the coffee table with soap and with straws, we would blow mountains of bubbles, bubbles inside bubbles, smoke inside of bubble (my dad used to smoke). The smoke was stuck inside ONE bubble! Wow, physics is cool! (Smoking is not cool.)

In school, I was drawn to science. From growing a plant from a dry kidney bean in second grade to placing blue dye in water and seeing it be sucked up by a celery stick, to building bridges to prove that triangles were the strongest shape, to programming a serving robot in primary school. I was in love. I was lucky to have two passionate science teachers that taught us with examples we could relate to. In high school, I won a medal of excellence for physics. When I had to choose a field of study, I had no idea what I wanted to be, so I chose what I loved, physics. The University of Ottawa sent me an early acceptance letter—probably because they wanted more diversity in their classrooms. I remember opening the large envelope and the car and screaming at the top of my lungs. I was *so* happy.

Up until that point, I had been sheltered in my small town and my small classes. My first two semesters at university were a slap in the face. I passed Calculus I by the skin of my teeth and failed Calculus II. In turn, I failed Physics II, because I needed to know how integrals work to solve physics problems. It was a nightmare. There were things like the natural logarithm, also known as ln, that I hadn’t learned in high school, or maybe I just missed the memo. Our teacher and my classmates all seem to know who Ellen was. It took me a little to long to realize the teacher was saying the letters L and N, not the name Ellen.

Five of my friends and I failed Calculus II. This didn’t seem normal to me. I decided to drop out and switch faculties within my university, but I was denied this move because my grades were no longer high enough. I was told I had to raise my average, so I took all the “extra” classes I could think of, including two geology classes, French literature, and a class called “magic” with a lady who believed she was a witch (I got an A, so maybe I’m a witch now?). I also took Calculus II again. My new calc teacher was amazing. He explained the methods in a way that was easy to understand, I passed with really easily.

At that point, I was frustrated. I now knew how integrals worked, so what should I do now? Should I stick with my original plan to study physics and try to work for the Canadian Space Agency? I thought back to my physics classroom... I was one of two female students in the class. Did I *want* to spend my life with male colleagues in an academic or laboratory setting? The answer was no. No, I did not. So I quit. I was accepted at the business school and studied marketing for the next three and a half years. I still love physics today, but I don’t think I would have loved working in physics. This might be because of my misconception of the science world, I can’t be sure. I don’t recall anyone telling me I wouldn’t succeed at physics, I just somehow felt I didn’t belong.

The saddest part was, I thought this was all my fault. I thought maybe I wasn’t smart enough after all. How had physics been so easy and fun before? It was easier to give up than to fight for my spot in that class. I also never reported that calculus teacher for being a berating asshole who can’t teach. I accepted the system and everything for what it was. I never doubted there was anything wrong with the system. I thought it’s there for a reason, hence, there’s something wrong with me. 

**Side rant**: Universities are bureaucratic nightmares. I lost my bursaries due to a misinformed employee, who couldn’t be bothered to look at my file when I asked: “Can I drop this class without losing my bursaries?” They said: “yes, no problem.” I lost my bursaries. I had a crap calculus teacher who berated us. After failing, I couldn’t change faculties, which cost me an extra year of time and living expenses and over $8,000 in studying fees. All that money just to be able to be considered to apply for the business school the next year, if and only *if* my grades were “good enough”. Kids, it’s okay not to go to university. It cost a lot of money and doesn’t necessarily give you what you need. Do what you want to do. Rant over.
